real estate is in big trouble right now
and no matter how fantastic Justin
Trudeau's hair looks it's not going to
come in save you you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you we
are going to talk not just about Canada
we'll talk about the United States I'm
going to let you know what's happening
right now with real estate it's a very
mixed bag because of what's happening
with inflation as well as interest rates
a lot of changes have happened and I
want to update you on that today let's
begin right here no time to waste you
could see forget rate relief most
Canadians are about to see their
mortgage interest payments sore this is
an issue because of what happens inside
of Canada a little bit different than
what goes on in the United States but
just pay attention Okay because I'll
break it down real simple you can see
that the mortgage for the mortgage
Market the sentiment can shift on a dime
that's especially evident these days the
Bank of Canada prepares to start cutting
interest rates so they say it depends on
what happens with inflation because it
did go up
the mortgage rate discussion is
dominated by rate relief which could
come as early as this
summer this is the renewal shock that
they're discussing which basically means
that they got to renew terms every 3 to
5 years that's how it works in Canada
and that's going to be at a higher rate
than what they currently have so if
anyone here is in my finance Friday
class you already know what I'm talking
about here but essentially you could see
that what's going on is that the these
people have to at some point in the near
future they got to renew their mortgage
it's a it's basically on a three to five
year basis versus in the United States
it would be let's say hey 30 years right
you you pay over 25 years 30 years but
you don't actually you know you got to
renew that mortgage so the interest
rates that they got a few years ago were
super low now they don't have that
Advantage what they're talking about it
here is the fact that okay even if we
get a couple cuts they're still way
higher than where they were before so
imagine the just imagine this for a
sec you have these homes that doubled in
value over a relatively short period of
time and when interest rates were low
the payment is still affordable that's
what people look at they're like well
it's still you know it's $4,000 it's
5,000 whatever the case is I can afford
it well that's right when interest rates
HSBC at one point for a short period of
time was giving an interest rate
mortgage rate of 0
99% I'm sure there was a lot of fine
print around that that's almost free
okay so you look at that as being one
aspect of it and then you know you can
come around to see the people that are
dealing with variable variable they've
been seeing the punishment what happens
to them is it doesn't go up up so you
you pay let's say 5,000 okay you're not
going to pay suddenly 6,000 7,000 and so
on but you're going to pay 100% interest
so they'll let it go okay your payment
is fixed at five grand but none of that
is principle so you're just renting oh
but renting is bad renting is throwing
your money away well what about paying
interest what do you call that did you
forget to put that in your calculations
people do that you know they buy a more
they get a home okay I'm going to get a
million dollar mortgage in some places
that's normal by the way I'm going to
get a million doll morgage well what's
it going to be by the time you know we
finish off here well after 25 years I'm
going to let's just make up a number 1.5
million okay well that was an additional
$500,000 on top of the total that people
just forget to calculate you got to
remember that that's part of it anyway
so you could see here here a vast
majority of people roughly 70% have
fixed rates that remain at the record
low prices but they're going to be in
trouble soon enough because that was
they say here
1.39% and now it's
4.79% in fact it's actually higher in
most cases so you're going to have an
additional problem as you add all of
this up you're going to have to add that
up you got to realize even for the those
most people yes a lot of people do
choose fixed rates but there's still
I've seen different numbers uh 25% of
people that are invariable they are
burdened heavily heavily and of course
this is the result Toronto mortgage
delinquency rate surges 71% higher not
71% but 71% higher okay and so of course
that's going to be an issue you know
that and uh it's still a low percentage
there's no question about it um be
Canada Works a little different than the
United States okay the the way you can't
just walk away but just understand that
this number has risen as a result it's
not like hey let's Panic or whatever
none of that is happening but just know
that it is increasing in the US
commercial foreclosures increase in
March of
2024 that shouldn't be a surprise to
anyone uh we are going back to
levels that is 2014 by the way that
other Peak and you can see we're based
basically coming up to that point right
now so you know that there's a big
strain on Commercial Real Estate in the
United States look at this years of
Supply you have a problem in the United
States which is retail and office
there's way too much Supply This Is Us
office years of Supply which is
just there's no sense in what why they
were building these things um you know
half empty all that they broke it down
by class but just just understand that
there's just way too much Supply and
that's a problem you have a cascading
effect that occurs because the tenant
moves out landlords can't pay the bill
who is lending to them those are the
ones in trouble which by the way are the
regional banks in most cases the
regional banks are in big trouble still
hasn't been resolved so keep that in
mind morgage rates over 7% and heading
higher housing market still frozen lots
of buyers on strike as PR prices are
still too high of course the the buyers
are saying forget it I'm not going to
buy this I'm just going to wait it out I
know the fed's going to cut of interest
rates eventually so I might as well just
wait it out is that true I'm not so sure
anymore if you watched yesterday's video
you know what we're talking about but
hey at 7% which by the way was coming
down came down under 6% for a while
there then it surges back up so interest
rates of course the Federal Reserve
their main interest rate the FED funds
rate does have you know loose impact on
what's going on if their rate is very
high then generally mortgage rates are
high but it can fluctuate because it's
actually based on the 10-year treasury
yield so looking at this first-time
buyers must earn
$120,000 to afford the average house do
you think many people have that I mean
the truth is no and that's a huge
concern for all these people and for
these markets that are riant on more
people to come come in and continuously
buy up all these properties but that's
not the case today is it I don't know
about real vacancy rates I really don't
uh but the vacancy rates they show us in
most cases are low but I think Florida
will be a Telltale sign of what's to
come over the next year so we got to see
because these mortgage rates are being
stretched very far um we got Airbnb
properties we got vacation
properties what happens with you know um
different capital gains taxes all these
different things are a factor and so
when people feel like they are destitute
when they have nothing else they say
forget about it they can leave or when
people don't like a new tax a new policy
a new strategy uh regulation whatever it
is they will move and this is just two
two obvious examples New York and
California pop population growth or
should we say uh the opposite of that
New York
California they're losing people they're
losing people and where are they going
you know a handful of them have just
gone to a different country but a lot of
that is internal migration I showed a
map probably about two weeks ago which
showed where they are actually moving to
um and a lot of that like if they're
from California they're basically moving
East just a little bit either that's
actually going to Texas or they're going
to Arizona they're going to Nevada those
areas there um and then you look at on
the East Coast a lot of people from New
York a lot of people from that area
moving to Florida moving moving south
moving to the pan you know the the South
you could say generally into the South
area now um that shows us that maybe
it's just an afford ility problem but at
the same time people with money they're
saying I've had enough I don't want this
new tax I don't want to do this I don't
want to do that forget about it all
right increase to the capital gain tax
will cause a flood in the cottage market
so this is mccoa which is like the
high-end um Cottage Country area of
Ontario okay so you know this is an
important indicator because what's
happened here is they've increased the
capital gains in inclusion rate and what
that is is like if you're going to get
tax on your capital gains it would only
be 50% right only 50% well actually now
what they're doing is making it 2/3 so
instead of half it's 2/3 and so people
are just saying forget it I don't want
this anymore I'm just going to sell
before the this gets pushed through the
government and so now you're going to
have potentially um people that are just
selling when they don't want to sell but
they're just tired of all the taxation
they realize oh my God I'm going to get
taxed on this so heavily we got to watch
out what policies are put in place and
how that can drastically so we see the
trajectory we're like okay this is the
way it is this is the way it's going to
be in six months in two years we can
kind of gauge that but there are
policies that might get implemented
which change that trajectory okay keep
that in mind if it's US Canada or
anywhere else world's billionaires
should pay a minimum 2% wealth tax
according to the G20 yes the unelected
group of people want to be able to
determine what's going on now I would
just say about
that um I actually posted about this on
my channel and it was very mixed and
what I said was do you
support there's a wealth tax do you
support the government basically barging
into these billionaires homes going in
and basically going and tallying and
document okay they have a painting here
the value is you know 10,000 a 100,000
two million okay go through they have a
vase here okay what's the value of that
they've got TVs they got couches very
Fine Furniture okay they tally all of
that stuff up because that's part of
their wealth okay and then you look
around the house okay good then they go
to their boat they go on their boat and
they they just barge in their boat and
they just write okay we'll write it all
down and then they go into maybe they
have a storage locker attached to their
name they just cut the lock they just go
in and they um access that see what
values in there like all of that and
that would be the way to assess what
someone's value is to go into their
properties and be able to assess their
total value their vehicles and
everything else go into their vehicles
uh and just take access to that and then
tally everything up that's their wealth
take the 2% out of their
wealth and how does it implemented is it
implemented at tax time um is it
implemented at December 31st what if
December 31st is not a business day well
then it was is it December 30th okay and
then uh what do you do if they don't
live inside that country uh all year
what if they're maybe only there for for
6 months do do you tax half of the
wealth okay and also uh you know how is
this going to be done if you know those
assets drop in value so suddenly let's
say just you know that art that they had
or or that real estate they had that
property property Market comes down by
50% but you taxed them 2% last year do
you then give them some of it back
or is it no it's a done deal so it's
impossible to monitor this it's
impossible to do a we you can't do that
without a actual violation of people's
freedom so if you support that on the
billionaires here's a problem then it
goes down to the multi-millionaires then
it's the millionaires then it's the
middle class and then it's every single
person you'll have an RFID chip on
everything you'll it'll be you know
internet of things every little thing in
your house is going to have a chip on it
and that reports back to your IRS CRA or
you know government entity do you
support
that that's a problem it's not it's not
hey let's tax the billionaires it's a
slippery slope keep that in mind okay
and you tell me what you think if you
disagree like you you would still
support it let me know to to basically
go onto their the properties go into
their vehicles um and and simply
document what it is and then they come
up with the calculation 78% of household
wealth in real estate fingers crossed
that the Epic real estate bubble doesn't
burst this is talking about China that
is huge actually in Canada it's also a
very high number but this is what goes
on inside of China let's see what
happens I just want to show you that
some people hold wealth in real estate
some people it's like mix they got the
401K retirement accounts other people
you know they're doing stocks it's all
different places uh so just keep that in
mind when we talk about wealth household
wealth where is it right okay if you
want to be part of the finance Friday
crew if you want to understand how to
actually build an online business I have
two things I got the finance Friday and
the business on Sunday where we go two
hours over two hours on Friday over two
hours on Sunday where I get into the
depths of this and we can actually
understand not just what the information
but what do we do about it and so that I
think is extremely valuable to all the
people that are in that group it's a
small Zoom class if you can't be live on
the class you can always get the
recordings if you want to know more
about that link at the top of the
description we got people joining all
the time I want to give a shout out to
all those people uh from the the online
classes and if you appreciated this
information hit that thumbs up button
and of course don't forget to come back
tomorrow take care